---
layout: project
title: Final Project - Sawyer Force Control
date: December 15, 2018
image: http://unsplash.it/400?random
permalink: "sawyer-force-control.html"
---

# Sawyer Force Control

## Project Goal

The goal of the final project in my Master's in Robotics at Northwestern was to
implement a force controller on Rethink Robotic's Sawyer robot. This was to be
accomplished using an ATI Axia 80 Force/Torque (F/T) sensor attached to Sawyer's
end effector, in place of its normally attached grippers.

In a very general sense, this project was approached in four steps:
1. Design and machine adapter plates to rigidly attach the F/T sensor to Sawyer's wrist

2. Simulate a motion controller that will be used to drive Sawyer

3. Adapt the simulated control for use with the real world Sawyer

4. Use the F/T sensor to control the force applied by Sawyer at the end effector
while also controlling Sawyer's motion

Force control, or being able to control how a wrench is applied at a robots end
effector, has many important and impressive uses in industry and research today.
For instance, force control can be used to accurately a screw in a threaded
hole, or carefully apply a force to a textured surface. In industry, for example,
force control can be used to have a robotic arm deburr an arbitrary curved edge.
Force control is also used to enhance human-robot interaction by giving the robot
the ability to 'feel' a human touch and respond in ways that are perceived as natural.

If you are interested in learning more about the ROS package I made for this project,
including how to use the package yourself, please see the detailed README on
[the packages GitHub repository](https://github.com/michaeltobia/sawyer_velctrlsim)

## Results

#### 1. Adapter Plates
The adapter plates used in this project were designed in OnShape. The design
makes use of threaded aluminum spacers to allow access to the screws that
attach the plates to Sawyer and the F/T sensor. A plastic spherical knob was
threaded on to an M10 threaded rod attached to the bottom adapter plate on the
F/T sensor. This allows for smooth contact of surfaces with minimal friction and
clean force readings, since the applied force is always perpendicular to the sphere.
The full adapter plate and F/T sensor assembly can be seen below.

<!-- FORCE SENSOR AND ADAPTER PLATE IMAGE -->

#### 2. Control Simulator
Running `sim_vel_ctrl.launch` opens the simulator portion of this package. In
this launch file, a trajectory generating node publishes `TransformStamped`
messages representing the desired trajectory along the `/desired_trajectory`
topic. A velocity controller calculates velocity commands to drive the simulated
Sawyer's end effector to this desired transform. These joint positions are
then interpolated from these commands and published to be visualized in RViz.
The result is a simulated Sawyer following an end effector trajectory described
in `traj_gen.py`, as seen belos.

<!--  -->




\begin{equation}
\int \frac{1}{2} l(x,u) dx = 0
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
\ V_{b}( t) =[ Ad_{X^{-1} X_{d}}] V_{d}( t) +K_{p} X_{e}( t) +K_{i} \int X_{e}( t) dt
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
where...\ [ X_{e}] =\log\left( X^{-1} X_{d}\right) ;[ X_{e}] \in se( 3)
\end{equation}

## Overview
Lorem ipsum $$a^2 + b^2 = c^2$$ dolor sit amet, tota primis copiosae id quo. Melius eligendi elaboraret pri et, eam menandri platonem te. Tollit iudicabit gloriatur per ad. Ad diceret recteque eum, eu commodo petentium qui. No aliquid delectus eam, dicta eripuit convenire te nec. Vix no veritus dignissim. Erat ferri veniam ut eos, pro ex eius error intellegat, his te graecis oporteat honestatis.

### Topic 1
His nemore audiam consequat ad, no augue choro assueverit mei. Zril offendit tincidunt ne quo. At commodo integre alienum sea, cu vocent fuisset suscipit nam. Eum ex tation omnesque adversarium, mutat autem putant te nam. Id vix facilis complectitur, vis vitae vivendo euripidis ea, fugit eirmod an vix.

### Topic 2
Ad case nemore equidem mea. Duo te iuvaret appetere appellantur, sint scaevola usu cu. Eum ne aeque ridens prompta. At legendos vulputate eos, pro illum iuvaret cu, ludus vituperata usu no.

### Topic 3
Mel magna discere in. Mea ea dicit homero perfecto. Eam nulla facete scribentur in. Vide volutpat laboramus est cu, usu cu impetus dignissim. Ex pro decore impetus. Ius nihil iisque deterruisset an, ex sanctus verterem his. Doming prompta insolens est ut.

### Topic 4
Quod etiam pri ea, habemus electram ea eos, propriae insolens ea qui. Pro no mollis vituperatoribus. Augue quando delicatissimi ex per, vel ea vidisse dolorem eleifend. Has te aliquid senserit, reque soleat sed ea. At bonorum facilisis disputando est, error tantas appetere nec te. Mel in nobis animal.
